# January 14, 2020

**Goals**:
- Participate on the Educational Codeforces Round 80 (Rated for Div. 2).

**Time**:
- 3 hours = 2 hours (contest) + 1 hour pre-contest practice and post-contest unfinished problem

**Journal**:
- Before the contest started I went to AOPS to solve some warmup counting problems, they are fun and simple.
- The *first problem* was easy at sight:
    - I had to find one value for which a f(x) was less than a target value.
    - I got a little carried away and didn't really think through what kind of function did f represent, I just assumed it was a non-increasing function. 
    - Now that I think of it, it didn't make much sense, haha.
    - After more than one hour fixing my binary search I *finally* realized that `f` was a parabolic function and I remembered that ternary search could easily fix this problem.
    - Although I had some bugs because I didn't pay too much attention to detail I finally succedeed to run.
- Some sources I looked were:
    - [cp-algorithms](https://cp-algorithms.com/num_methods/ternary_search.html)
    - [topcoder binary search](https://www.topcoder.com/community/competitive-programming/tutorials/binary-search)
- The *second problem* was fun, but wasn't so obvious as the first.
    - I first tried to think it through, but I quickly gave up because the `conc` function was not properly defined. 
    - I had to formalize such concept so I came up with a basic idea: `conc(x, y) = x^(pow10(y)+1) + y`.
    - I then did some algebra (I'm kind of ashamed of the dumb mistakes I did in this step haha) and the equation shed some light: `b = 10^(log10(B)+1)-1`
    - The rest was just straightforward optimization :D.

**Conclusions**

Hey, 2 problems are better than 0. Also, had a ton of fun. 
I say this is a successful session.
